basic-examples/01-orchestra-hub/README.md, before:

# Orchestra Hub

[Orchestra Hub](https://orchestrahub.org) is a repository that allows firms to publish and distribute their specifications to other market participants.

This example shows how to configure the plugin to pull an existing Orchestra spec directly from the  repository. 

Plugin users can then use these specs to create their own [custom specifications](../03-derived) and generate artifacts (such as [code libraries](../07-java) and [schemas](../05-avro-schema)) for use in their [applications](../../app-examples).

## Configuration

The `name` and `version` of the specification is configured in the [build.gradle](./build.gradle) file using the `repository` option.

```groovy
orchestra {
  specification {
    repository orchestraHub(name: 'fix-latest', version: 'ep292')
  }
}
```

## Run

Use the Gradle wrapper to run the example.

```shell
$ ./gradlew :basic-examples:01-orchestra-hub:runExample
```

> **Note**: `runExample` is wired to call the `orchestraBuildSpec` task from the Orchestra plugin.


## Results

The spec will be output to the Gradle build folder.

```shell
$ ./basic-examples/01-orchestra-hub/build/orchestra/specification/01-orchestra-hub.xml
```

Commit message:

[AWP-1407] Add example specs and update READMEs

basic-examples/01-orchestra-hub/README.md, after:

# Orchestra Hub

This example demonstrates how to fetch Orchestra specifications from a remote repository.

[Orchestra Hub](https://orchestrahub.org) is a public platform where organizations can share their Orchestra specifications with the broader community, access specifications published by others, and collaborate on standardization efforts.

The plugin enables users to fetch a specification from the repository, create [derived](../03-derived) versions, and generate artifacts like [code libraries](../07-java) and [schemas](../05-avro-schema) to simplify application integration. 

> **Note**: Orchestra Hub supports versioning, allowing users to update their applications by simply adjusting the version number specified in their build files whenever a new version of a specification is published. 

## Configuration

Specify the `name` and `version` of the specification in the [build.gradle](./build.gradle) file using the `repository` extension.

```groovy
orchestra {
  specification {
    repository orchestraHub(name: 'fix-latest', version: 'ep292')
  }
}
```

## Run

Use the Gradle wrapper to run the example.

```shell
$ ./gradlew :basic-examples:01-orchestra-hub:runExample
```

> **Note**: `runExample` is wired to call the `orchestraBuildSpec` task from the Orchestra plugin.

## Results

The specification will be output to the Gradle build folder.

```shell
$ ./basic-examples/01-orchestra-hub/build/orchestra/specification/01-orchestra-hub.xml
```

### Visualisation

You can search and explore the specification in [Orchimate](https://orchimate.org/).

![](docs/images/orchimate.png)
